turn to the Middle East and there have
been developments in ceasefire
negotiations between Israel and Hamas
with both sides continuing to review
proposals Egyptian mediators have
arrived in Israel and local media
reporting there's been notable progress
in finding common ground in Gaza itself
the Hamas run Health Ministry says at
least 50 people have been killed in
Israeli attacks over the past 24 hours
this was the scene in Rafa on Friday
night the BBC has learned that British
troops could be deployed on the ground
in Gaza to help deliver Aid via a new
sea route Aid would be delivered from
Cyprus on large ships before being
transferred into trucks and smaller
landing craft the floating Causeway
would be several hundred met long and
anchored firmly into the sand the United
States has decided not to put American
boots on the ground a diplomatic
correspondent James landel is following
the developments from Jerusalem
well this week Katherine the American
defense um Department gave a long
briefing to uh official media in America
about how this new Maritime Aid Corridor
would work but there was a big hole in
the plans and that's because the United
States has made it very clear they are
not going to put us boots on the ground
in cyp in in in Gaza they are not going
to drive those Aid trucks off the
landing craft onto the the floating
pontoon or Causeway when it's
established and onto the beach into a
secure Zone on the beach uh in Gaza so
someone's going to have to do that the
Americans said an unnamed third party
would do it they said it would be a
significant partner of the United States
a nation not some private military
company and my understanding is that one
option being considered by the British
government is that British troops would
drive those trucks now I should be very
clear no decision has been made the
issue has not yet reach the prime
minister's uh desk the mod is not
commenting nor is the Israeli Army but
the British have been very closely
involved in this operation's planning
from the very beginning both in American
headquarters in Florida and also in
Cyprus a British ship is going to be
used as a dormatory for hundreds of
American Service men and women involved
uh and even the the British hydrographic
office has been giving detailed
information to the planners about the
the nature of gaza's Shoreline so it is
a possibility it is an option the
British forces will drive those trucks
onto the the beach in Gaza In Harm's Way
but it is just an option no decision has
been taken and James looking at the
situation in Gaza we're hearing of
notable progress in terms of mediation
talks between Israel and Hamas do we
have any detail on how those talks are
proceeding well I'm always cautious
about being hopeful and disappointed and
progress and stalled in these kind of
negotiations CU they're just long and
difficult what we do know is that the
talking is continuing
uh Egyptian officials were here in
Jerusalem yesterday we know that Hamas
uh overnight has said that they have
received the latest Israeli proposal we
know that there's a big conference
taking place in Saudi Arabia this
weekend under the egis of the world
economic forum and there's a possibility
of some parties talking to each other in
the sidelines of that of that conference
I think the idea is that there is going
to be another attempt to see if a deal
is possible for a ceasefire for some
hostages to be released for some
Palestinian prisoners to be
released before any military operation
begins in Rafa in the south of Gaza
against Hamas Fighters that Israel says
are HED up there in tunnels so it's
another attempt to try and make some
progress we'll see whether it does
because thus far it's been very very
difficult for both sides to try to
bridge the divide the BBC's James landel
in Jerusalem will let's speak to Chris
Parry a former British Royal Navy
officer thank you for joining us on BBC
News how would an operation like this
work well uh what we have to imagine is
that the coast L Gaza doesn't have any
port facilities and so if anybody can
remember what D-Day was like we had mury
Hubers and we had peers and pontoons
that were leading from deep water into
the shallow Zone and also the shore and
what this is called by the Americans is
called Joint Logistics
over the shore
jlots and it's it's essentially a
floating Pier that enables you to put
heavy trucks and also other loads ashore
from uh ships that can only go into deep
water and there'll be real questions
about the safety of any troops that
could that would take part in an
operation like this how would their
safety be
guaranteed well during the construction
of this pontoon Pier U people are going
to stay in raw Fleet auxiliary Bay which
is a 15,000 ton auxiliary ship that
works for the Royal Navy um I think
we've heard already that a third party
is going to be driving these trucks I
sincerely hope it isn't British troops
we know that there's endemic criminality
in Gaza itself which dominates all Aid
and supplies that are going in and I
suspect the interface would best be
served by uh an Arab country rather than
uh any British troops going ashore so I
suspect we're going to be limited to
doing what is offshore and the truck
driving and all the other things are
best placed amongst those who are
understand the local culture and can
deal with it and as we've seen obviously
during the course of the war um in Gaza
there is the possibility of mistakes as
happened with the aid workers with the
world Central Kitchen do you think that
would be a factor in the government's
decision in this and what are the
consequences if there is a mistake and
British troops are
injured well as I said I don't think
British troops will be involved um so I
think there'll be but if they're on the
ground in Gaza there's a potential for
anything to happen they won't be and
that's my point I think they'll be
offshore uh on the installation and
that'll be clearly demarcated um so the
Israelis know that I don't think the
Israelis or anybody else is going to be
deliberately attacking uh the Pontoon or
the aid suppliers offshore unless they
intend to do so and I think there'll be
instant retribution uh on anybody who
tries to do that uh